
{.#} CS 61A
{.#++}

Time: Thu 10/3/17 2 pm

{.#} Misc about Trees from Last Week

They are naturally sustainable! Oh well, think about how <q>trees</q> are conceptually related to <q>pairs.</q> Define the terminologies around trees--tree, root, label, branch, leaf (the language we use may vary in different places).

Consider the following implementation:

```py
def tree(label, branches=[]):
  return [label] + branches
def label(tree):
  return tree[0]
def branches(tree):
  return tree[1:]
```

There are multiple ways to get started on playing with such tree structure! As a few examples:

1. Given a tree, how can we find a largest/smallest label in the leaves?
1. Given a tree, how can we find a largest/smallest label in the tree?
1. Given a tree, how can we find the sum of all labels (assuming all labels are numbers)?
1. Given a tree, how can we make a copy of it with all the leaves pruned? The function is non-destructive.
1. Given a tree and a label, how can we check if the label we want is in the tree?
1. Given a tree, how can we check if there aren't any descendent nodes of a same label for any node in the tree?

{.#} Weekly Misc about Mutable Functions, Objects & Inheritance
{.#++}

{.#} Mutable Functions

Similar to the elementary data abstraction, just that we can change values in the encapsulation now somehow.

What is `nonlocal`? And why is it useful in this case? Can we just bind some variable in the parent frame to some new values without using this keyword? Do we need to have something in a nonlocal frame with the name beforehand?

Here's something really bad to do as an example:

```py
def make_bike():
  # The color of the bike
  color = "red"

  def change_color(new_color):
    # Change the color of the bike
    color = new_color

    # However now you thought you forgot to use nonlocal
    # But note that it doesn't hoist
    nonlocal color # Invalid syntax

    # Python will just give up with your code :(
    # ... and literally halt here

  return [change_color]

[change_color] = make_bike() # Make a bike
change_color("blue") # Make it blue, don't like it being red
```

Can we still implement something with a same interface that does exactly the same without `nonlocal`, using `list`, `dict` etc.?

{.#} Some extra confusions

There's something called `global`; however, Python doesn't act as picky as it does to `nonlocal`. When it sees something undefined paired up with `global`, it just doesn't complain. More tears...

Can we use `global` rather than `nonlocal` for everything? Please don't.

{.#} Objects & Inheritance

Primitively, they are just syntactical sugars for data abstraction. What are *methods*, *bound methods* and *static methods*?

A quick example of each:

```py
class balloon():

  @staticmethod
  def describe():
    print("Balloon!")

  def blow(self):
    print("The balloon grew larger...")

b = balloon()

balloon            # <class __main__.balloon at ...>
b                  # <__main__.balloon instance at ...>

# Static method

balloon.describe   # <function describe at ...>
balloon.describe() # Balloon!

b.describe         # <function describe at ...>
b.describe()       # Balloon!

# Unbound method

balloon.blow       # <unbound method balloon.blow>
balloon.blow(b)    # The balloon grew larger...

# Bound method

b.blow             # <bound method balloon.blow of <__main__.balloon instance at ...>>
b.blow()           # The balloon grew larger...
```

Class variables and instance variables are different. Class variables are copied to it when an instance is created; however, instance variables are just different from instance to instance.

How do you make custom constructors for a class?

There are some goodies and complications that come with objects too. Multiple inheritance is a beast--check out the diamond problem--and it can bring ambiguities in programming. There are ways to probe into the method resolution order.

What's `super`, and why do we use it?

{.#--}

{.#--}
