
{.#} CS 61A
{.#++}

Time: Tue 9/26/17 2pm

{.#} Recursions
{.#++}

{.#} Verbose Factorial

Here's a good way to visualize factorials--but a little challenging to code. Write a functional `verbose_fact(n)` that prints out the steps to reduce the recursive cases to a base case. You may utilize the params `fact_so_far` and `prefix` to help with building up your solution.

```py
def verbose_fact(n, fact_so_far = 1, prefix = ""):
  """
  >>> verbose_fact(1)
    1!
  = 1
  >>> verbose_fact(2)
    2!
  = 2 x 1!
  = 2 x 1
  = 2
  >>> verbose_fact(3)
    3!
  = 3 x 2!
  = 3 x 2 x 1!
  = 3 x 2 x 1
  = 6
  """

  assert n >= 1, "Use n >= 1"
  "*** YOUR CODE HERE ***"
```

<details><summary>Solution</summary><pre><code class="language-py">def verbose_fact(n, fact_so_far = 1, prefix = ""):
  """
  >>> verbose_fact(1)
    1!
  = 1
  >>> verbose_fact(2)
    2!
  = 2 x 1!
  = 2 x 1
  = 2
  >>> verbose_fact(3)
    3!
  = 3 x 2!
  = 3 x 2 x 1!
  = 3 x 2 x 1
  = 6
  """

  assert n >= 1, "Use n >= 1"

  # Check if it's the first time calling the function
  if not prefix:
    # First time
    print("  " + str(n) + "!")
  else:
    # Not the first time
    print("= " + prefix + str(n) + "!")

  # Check if recursion is finished
  if n == 1:
    # Base case, end of recursion
    if prefix: print("= " + prefix + str(n)) # Print the simplified "1!"
    # Print out the solution
    print("= " + str(fact_so_far * n))
  else:
    # Continue by recursion
    verbose_fact(n - 1, fact_so_far * n, prefix + str(n) + " x ")</code></pre></details>

{.include ../courses/cs-61a/topics/recursions/towers-of-hanoi.md}

{.#--}

{.#} Weekly Misc about Trees

They are naturally sustainable! Oh well, think about how <q>trees</q> are conceptually related to <q>pairs.</q> Define the terminologies around trees--root, node, leaf node (the language we use may vary in different places).

Consider the following implementation:

```py
def tree(label, branches=[]):
  return [label] + branches
def label(tree):
  return tree[0]
def branches(tree):
  return tree[1:]
```

There are multiple ways to get started on playing with such tree structure! As a few examples:

1. Given a tree, how can we find a largest/smallest element in the leaves?
1. Given a tree, how can we find a largest/smallest element in the tree?
1. Given a tree, how can we find the sum of all elements (assuming all elements are numbers)?
1. Given a tree, how can we make a copy of it with all the leaves pruned? In other words, the function is non-destructive.
1. Given a tree and a label, how can we check if the label we want is in the tree?
1. Given a tree, how can we check if there aren't any elements of a same label for any element in the tree?

And here's sample tree to work with:

```py
sample_tree = \       # the back slash is here to break the line
  tree(5, [
    tree(-5),
    tree(10, [
      tree(2),
      tree(5, [
        tree(3, [
          tree(15, [
            tree(-2)  # Leaf
          ])
        ]),
        tree(4),      # Leaf
        tree(5, [
          tree(99),   # Leaf
          tree(6)
        ])
      ])
    ])
  ])
```

{.#--}
